README.md, before:

# Code-generator

Command line utility to auto-generate the structure files that [this server](https://github.com/ScienceDb/graphql-server)
will use to perform CRUD operations for each model created.

## Set up:
Clone the repository and run:
```
$ npm install -g
```
If you only want to install it locally run `npm install` instead

## Usage:

To run the unit-test case:
```
$ npm run test-unit
```

To run the integration-test case
```
$ npm run test-integration <-- params>
```
Note: intergation-test case creates a docker-compose ambient with three servers `gql_postgres`,
`gql_science_db_graphql_server` and `gql_ncbi_sim_srv`. By default, after the test run, all
corresponding images will be completely removed from the docker. However, to speed-up the
development process it is possible to not remove the selected images. Each of the images that
wou prefer to keep alive shell be preceeded with the `-k` or `--keep-image` key. For example:
```
$ npm run test-integration -- -k gql_ncbi_sim_srv -k gql_science_db_graphql_server
```


And to generate the structure files:
```
$ code-generator -f <input-json-files> -o <output-directory>
```
```
INPUT:
<input-json-files> - directory where json models are stored
<output-directory> - directory where the generated code will be written
```
This command will create(if doesn't exist) four folders containing the generated files for each model in the ```input-json-files```:

* models ----> sequelize model
* schemas ----> graphQL schema
* resolvers ----> basic CRUD resolvers
* migrations ----> create and delete table migration file


## Example of use:
In the same directory of this repository run:

```
$ code-generator -f ./example_json_files -o /your_path_directory
```
If you want to complete the example with the [server](https://github.com/ScienceDb/graphql-server)
make ```/your_path_directory``` the same directory where the server repository is stored.

NOTE: For displaying the explanation about usage we can run the help flag:
```
$ code-generator -h
```
```
Code generator for GraphQL server

 Options:

   -f, --jsonFiles <filesFolder>      Folder containing one json file for each model
   -o, --outputDirectory <directory>  Directory where generated code will be written
   -h, --help                         output usage information
```

## JSON files Spec

Each json file describes one and only one model. (i.e if an association involves two models, this association needs to be specified in both json files, corresponding to each model).

For each model we need to specify the following fields in the json file:

Name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*name* | String | Name of the model (it is recommended uppercase for the initial character).
*storageType* | String | Type of storage where the model is stored. So far can be one of __sql__ or __Webservice__
*attributes* | Object | The key of each entry is the name of the attribute and the value should be the a string indicating the type of the attribute. See [table](types-spec) below for allowed types. Example: ```{ "attribute1" : "String", "attribute2: "Int" }```
*associations* | Object | The key of each entry is the name of the association and the value should be an object describing the associations. See [Associations Spec](associations-spec) section below for the specifications of the associations.

EXAMPLES OF VALID JSON FILES

```
//Dog.json
{
  "model" : "Dog",
  "storageType" : "Sql",
  "attributes" : {
    "name" : "String",
    "breed" : "String"
  },

  "associations" : {
    "person" : {
      "type" : "sql_belongsTo",
      "target" : "Person",
      "targetKey" : "personId",
      "targetStorageType" : "sql"
    }
  }
}

```

```
//Publisher.json
{
  "model" : "Publisher",
  "storageType" : "webservice",
  "attributes" : {
    "name" : "String",
    "phone" : "String"
  },
  "associations":{
      "books" : {
          "type" : "cross_hasMany",
          "target" : "Book",
          "targetKey" : "publisherId",
          "targetStorageType" : "sql"
        }
  }
}
```



### Types Spec
The following types are allowed for the attributes field

 Type |
------- |
String |
Int |
Float |
Boolean |
Date |
Time |
DateTime |

For more info about `Date`, `Time`, and `DateTime` types, please see this [info](https://github.com/excitement-engineer/graphql-iso-date/blob/HEAD/rfc3339.txt).

Example:
* Date: A date string, such as `2007-12-03`.
* Time: A time string at UTC, such as `10:15:30Z`.
* DateTime: A date-time string at UTC, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30Z`

### Associations Spec

We will consider six possible type of associations depending on the Storage:
1. sql_belongsTo
2. sql_hasOne
3. sql_hasMany
4. sql_belongsToMany
5. cross_hasOne
6. cross_hasMany

First four type of associations explain them selves and they are intended to be used when both, source and target models, are stored in SQL databases.
Last two type of associations are intended to be used when at least one of the models involved is stored in a WebService.

For all type of association, except for association  of type 4 (sql_belongsToMany), the necessary arguments would be:

name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*type* | String | Type of association (one of the six described above).
*target* | String | Name of model to which the current model will be associated with
*targetKey* | String | Key to identify the field in the target
*targetStorageType* | String | Type of storage where the target model is stored. So far can be one of __sql__ or __Webservice__
*label* | String | Name of the column in the target model to be used as a display name in the GUI
*sublabel* | String | Optional name of the column in the target model to be used as a sub-label in the GUI

When the association is of the type 4, it's necessary to describe a couple of two extra arguments given that the association is made with a cross table. The extra two arguments will be:

name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*sourceKey* | String | Key to identify the source id
*keysIn* | String | Name of the cross table

## NOTE:
THE SAME DATA MODELS DESCRIPTION(.json files) WILL BE USEFUL FOR GENERATING BOTH, THE BACKEND DESCRIBED HERE AND [THE FRONTEND OR GUI](https://github.com/ScienceDb/single-page-app-codegen).

Fields *`label`* and *`sublabel`* in the specification are only needed by the GUI generator, but backend generator will only read required information, therefore extra fields such as *`label`* and *`sublabel`* will be ignored by the backend generator.
Example:
```
//book.json
{
 "model" : "Book",
 "storageType" : "SQL",
 "attributes" : {
        "id" : Int,
        "title": String,
        "ISBN": Int
    },
 "associations" : {
        "authors" : {
            "type" : "sql_belongsToMany",
            "target" : "Person",
            "targetKey" : "person_id",
            "sourceKey" : "book_id",
            "keysIn" : "person_to_book",
            "targetStorageType" : "sql",
            "label": "name",
            "sublabel": "lastname"
        }
    }
}
```

## Testing

For relevant files see `package.json` (section scripts), directories `.test` and `docker`. Test framework is `mocha` and `chai`.

### Unit tests

Run all existing unit tests with
```
npm run test-unit
```

### Integration tests

#### Requirements

You need to be on a \*nix operating system, and have bash and Docker installed and running.

Integration tests are carried out using Docker to setup a GraphQL web server and generate code for example data models. The last step of the setup is to create databases and migrate schemas. After that the server is started using `localhost:3000`, which can than be accessed using HTTP. Solely via such HTTP connections the generated API (GraphQL web server) is tested, just as a user might be doing with e.g. `curl`.

All related Docker files are stored in `./docker`; especially `docker-compose-test.yml`.

The test pipeline is defined and executed in `./test/integration-test.bash` for reasons of simplicity. The actual integration tests are written using `mocha` and can be found in `./test/mocha_integration_test.js`, which is invoked by the above bash script.

To ecexute the integration tests run
```
npm run test-integration
```

Commit message:

+Option -h to see manpage style documentation

README.md, after:

# Code-generator

Command line utility to auto-generate the structure files that [this server](https://github.com/ScienceDb/graphql-server)
will use to perform CRUD operations for each model created.

## Set up:
Clone the repository and run:
```
$ npm install -g
```
If you only want to install it locally run `npm install` instead

## Usage:

To run the unit-test case:
```
$ npm run test-unit
```

To run the integration-test case
```
$ npm run test-integration [-- OPTIONS]
```
Note:
Intergation-test case creates a docker-compose ambient with three servers: 
     
    `gql_postgres
    gql_science_db_graphql_server
    gql_ncbi_sim_srv`

    By default, after the test run, all corresponding Docker images will be completely removed from the docker, this cleanup step can be skiped with `-k` option.

    Please run this utility with `-h` option to see the man page

## Examples:
```
To see full test-integration info:
$ npm run test-integration -- -h

To restart containers:
$ npm run test-integration -- -r

To generate code and start containers:
$ npm run test-integration -- -g

To do the tests only and keep the containers running at end:
$ npm run test-integration -- -t -k

To generate code and do the tests, removing all Docker images at end:
$ npm run test-integration -- -T

To do a full clean up (removes containers, images and code):
$ npm run test-integration -- -T
```


And to generate the structure files:
```
$ code-generator -f <input-json-files> -o <output-directory>
```
```
INPUT:
<input-json-files> - directory where json models are stored
<output-directory> - directory where the generated code will be written
```
This command will create(if doesn't exist) four folders containing the generated files for each model in the ```input-json-files```:

* models ----> sequelize model
* schemas ----> graphQL schema
* resolvers ----> basic CRUD resolvers
* migrations ----> create and delete table migration file


## Example of use:
In the same directory of this repository run:

```
$ code-generator -f ./example_json_files -o /your_path_directory
```
If you want to complete the example with the [server](https://github.com/ScienceDb/graphql-server)
make ```/your_path_directory``` the same directory where the server repository is stored.

NOTE: For displaying the explanation about usage we can run the help flag:
```
$ code-generator -h
```
```
Code generator for GraphQL server

 Options:

   -f, --jsonFiles <filesFolder>      Folder containing one json file for each model
   -o, --outputDirectory <directory>  Directory where generated code will be written
   -h, --help                         output usage information
```

## JSON files Spec

Each json file describes one and only one model. (i.e if an association involves two models, this association needs to be specified in both json files, corresponding to each model).

For each model we need to specify the following fields in the json file:

Name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*name* | String | Name of the model (it is recommended uppercase for the initial character).
*storageType* | String | Type of storage where the model is stored. So far can be one of __sql__ or __Webservice__
*attributes* | Object | The key of each entry is the name of the attribute and the value should be the a string indicating the type of the attribute. See [table](types-spec) below for allowed types. Example: ```{ "attribute1" : "String", "attribute2: "Int" }```
*associations* | Object | The key of each entry is the name of the association and the value should be an object describing the associations. See [Associations Spec](associations-spec) section below for the specifications of the associations.

EXAMPLES OF VALID JSON FILES

```
//Dog.json
{
  "model" : "Dog",
  "storageType" : "Sql",
  "attributes" : {
    "name" : "String",
    "breed" : "String"
  },

  "associations" : {
    "person" : {
      "type" : "sql_belongsTo",
      "target" : "Person",
      "targetKey" : "personId",
      "targetStorageType" : "sql"
    }
  }
}

```

```
//Publisher.json
{
  "model" : "Publisher",
  "storageType" : "webservice",
  "attributes" : {
    "name" : "String",
    "phone" : "String"
  },
  "associations":{
      "books" : {
          "type" : "cross_hasMany",
          "target" : "Book",
          "targetKey" : "publisherId",
          "targetStorageType" : "sql"
        }
  }
}
```



### Types Spec
The following types are allowed for the attributes field

 Type |
------- |
String |
Int |
Float |
Boolean |
Date |
Time |
DateTime |

For more info about `Date`, `Time`, and `DateTime` types, please see this [info](https://github.com/excitement-engineer/graphql-iso-date/blob/HEAD/rfc3339.txt).

Example:
* Date: A date string, such as `2007-12-03`.
* Time: A time string at UTC, such as `10:15:30Z`.
* DateTime: A date-time string at UTC, such as `2007-12-03T10:15:30Z`

### Associations Spec

We will consider six possible type of associations depending on the Storage:
1. sql_belongsTo
2. sql_hasOne
3. sql_hasMany
4. sql_belongsToMany
5. cross_hasOne
6. cross_hasMany

First four type of associations explain them selves and they are intended to be used when both, source and target models, are stored in SQL databases.
Last two type of associations are intended to be used when at least one of the models involved is stored in a WebService.

For all type of association, except for association  of type 4 (sql_belongsToMany), the necessary arguments would be:

name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*type* | String | Type of association (one of the six described above).
*target* | String | Name of model to which the current model will be associated with
*targetKey* | String | Key to identify the field in the target
*targetStorageType* | String | Type of storage where the target model is stored. So far can be one of __sql__ or __Webservice__
*label* | String | Name of the column in the target model to be used as a display name in the GUI
*sublabel* | String | Optional name of the column in the target model to be used as a sub-label in the GUI

When the association is of the type 4, it's necessary to describe a couple of two extra arguments given that the association is made with a cross table. The extra two arguments will be:

name | Type | Description
------- | ------- | --------------
*sourceKey* | String | Key to identify the source id
*keysIn* | String | Name of the cross table

## NOTE:
THE SAME DATA MODELS DESCRIPTION(.json files) WILL BE USEFUL FOR GENERATING BOTH, THE BACKEND DESCRIBED HERE AND [THE FRONTEND OR GUI](https://github.com/ScienceDb/single-page-app-codegen).

Fields *`label`* and *`sublabel`* in the specification are only needed by the GUI generator, but backend generator will only read required information, therefore extra fields such as *`label`* and *`sublabel`* will be ignored by the backend generator.
Example:
```
//book.json
{
 "model" : "Book",
 "storageType" : "SQL",
 "attributes" : {
        "id" : Int,
        "title": String,
        "ISBN": Int
    },
 "associations" : {
        "authors" : {
            "type" : "sql_belongsToMany",
            "target" : "Person",
            "targetKey" : "person_id",
            "sourceKey" : "book_id",
            "keysIn" : "person_to_book",
            "targetStorageType" : "sql",
            "label": "name",
            "sublabel": "lastname"
        }
    }
}
```

## Testing

For relevant files see `package.json` (section scripts), directories `.test` and `docker`. Test framework is `mocha` and `chai`.

### Unit tests

Run all existing unit tests with
```
npm run test-unit
```

### Integration tests

#### Requirements

You need to be on a \*nix operating system, and have bash and Docker installed and running.

Integration tests are carried out using Docker to setup a GraphQL web server and generate code for example data models. The last step of the setup is to create databases and migrate schemas. After that the server is started using `localhost:3000`, which can than be accessed using HTTP. Solely via such HTTP connections the generated API (GraphQL web server) is tested, just as a user might be doing with e.g. `curl`.

All related Docker files are stored in `./docker`; especially `docker-compose-test.yml`.

The test pipeline is defined and executed in `./test/integration-test.bash` for reasons of simplicity. The actual integration tests are written using `mocha` and can be found in `./test/mocha_integration_test.js`, which is invoked by the above bash script.

To ecexute the integration tests run
```
npm run test-integration
```
